and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly email where i'm
sharing actual website and marketing
tips useful podcasts free goodies and
much much more so you can kickstart your
monday with a bang every week it's over
at businessgrowth.email
so i've got tara robertson joining us
today tara is the senior demand gen
manager over at chili piper she's also
now the podcast host over
gen
welcome back to the show how's it going
really good sam thanks so much for
having me
no worries looking forward to it so
we're gonna be chatting
all about how b2b marketers how business
in general can drive inbound
without getting their content
something that gets chatted about all
days of the week on social media
linkedin for there's always debates
between marketers upper management
c-suite on on this so it should be a
pretty interesting debate and there
should be a good bit of back and forth
but first and foremost tariff anyone
that isn't familiar with gated content
what what does that actually mean
sure so i think the most common thing
you'll see is marketers essentially
putting a form or what we call a gate in
front of content that they
basically decided was high value enough
to gate and ask for either an email and
um return or they're just putting a long
form in front of that content so they're
basically saying hey you give me your
email and i'll give you this content
it's kind of the most basic version but
you'll see that for things like
blog posts even some people it used to
be just kind of pdfs but now there's all
different types of content that people
are gating
yeah yeah yeah it's something that's
been done for years right whether it's
for a webinar for an ebook for a
download or some websites will even ask
it if you just want to see their pricing
so you can know their rates and things
like that so it comes in all shapes and
sizes sometimes a small ask sometimes
right through to quite a big ass
depending on what the the goodies you
get at the end of it but
is it is it an outdated practice in
altar is it something that needs to kick
the boot when it comes to b2b especially
yeah i think i have a hard time saying
things are definitively dead or
completely gone because i don't know
your business and i don't know
everyone's inside and out of their
business but i think from my experience
at least when we were gating things a
couple years ago we were gating
basically the best content we were
saying this is worth
getting because people will feel like it
was a fair value they were exchanging
their email and they were getting great
content but when i think about that now
why would you want to hide your best
content it doesn't really make the most
sense if you are trying to bring people
into your business you would want to
kind of lead with your best foot forward
not have
your okay content is uh
content
oh we've just dropped out i don't know
if that's my
side
oh sorry sorry i lost i lost the last
five seconds and then i know you were
just saying i lost it too
yeah not sure that might have been the
tool um our streaming streaming tool but
we heard you just until you said
companies were getting their best
content and then leaving others open so
just carry on that last bit
sure yeah so i think
really you want to lead with your best
foot forward not your kind of mediocre
content right so if you have your best
content hidden people might never see it
and from the side of the team that's
producing that content it's not a great
story for them either because they put
all this time and effort into that and
way less people will see that if you put
it behind a gate so obviously there's
some things like say a live webinar
where you might need a gate because just
logistically you need to sign up but for
the most part a lot of b2b marketers
that i'm talking to are moving away from
that gate
yeah yeah yeah do you think that those
kind of things where it's 100 needed
like you say whether you're signing up
for some kind of live video event be a
webinar linkedin live whatever
do you think that should be the only
exception because you literally need to
put in your info so you notified the
date that goes live so you can sign in
i mean there are some other exceptions
too like for example we send out a
newsletter every couple weeks that
people really seem to enjoy so for that
obviously i need your email i can't
email you without that um but other than
that i think
i can't really think of too many other
reasons why you would want to gate your
content and hide it
yeah yeah yeah because i know over at
chili piper you've pretty much got an
open policy like you say apart from
those two things when it comes to
sharing things and did you when you
decided to take the take the rails off
take the gates out but did it have a big
impact on
kind of all sides of business or
initially did you see a dip in did
perhaps your team get worried because
you were getting less contact
information from prospects so what was
the process there
yeah that happened actually before my
time at chile piper so i can't say for
sure what the numbers were like when we
made that switch but we've always been
focused further down the funnel on our
marketing team so
we obviously we do have some forms like
i said we have some webinars and events
we have our newsletter but the focus for
our team is really driving opportunities
and meetings for sale so we've never
really been in that head space of we
just need to put a form out to drive an
mql
which is good we've never we didn't
start from that space so we don't really
have to fight against that culture of it
which is a positive for me coming in
when that was already done i'd say yeah
i'd say it's a nice spot to be in
certainly a market in where we are now
and moving forward but yeah like i was
saying offline before we hit record tara
there's i still chat to a lot of
marketing leaders be at cmos vps and
marketing most weeks whether that is
around a sales conversation talking
about their website their seo their
digital strategy
and still quite a lot of them are
getting pressure from upper management
perhaps from the c-suite that they need
to drive leads and in order to maximize
lead volume they've got to produce mqls
marketing qualified leads from all
shapes and all sizes because if the
c-suite don't see this volume of leads
coming in they're going to get pressured
their role in the company might be in
compromise and they're just going to be
in in stress city basically and that
often means that they want to ramp up
paid paid advertising perhaps to drive
as many kind of webinar signups or ebook
downloads or content downloads whatever
kind of marketing qualified lead
you see fit maybe then put them through
some kind of email nurture so
what's your kind of response to people
that have got this this pressure because
i know it's not easy right because it's
not necessarily their choice
yeah it's i've i've been there so i can
empathize with that i think it's tough
because that comes from the top but at
the same time there are things you can
do as a marketer who's executing on
campaigns so one thing i would do is
take a look if you can pull a report of
those mqls that you're bringing in and
how many are actually being qualified by
sales how many are becoming
opportunities it's probably a very low
number if you're doing things like
getting a pdf and sending those leads
right to sales so i would take a look at
that first
and then at the other end of the
spectrum you can look at your most
recent either closed one deals or just
new ops and see where did those come
from so one thing that we do is we use
gong to record all of our sales calls
and i actually have alerts set up for
things
like the podcast that we run like the
newsletter so that when that comes up on
a call
i just kind of flag that and i can make
a note of it so it might not come up in
our attribution tool but it's
interesting for me to track and make the
case that like hey i should be spending
more time on this versus direct mansion
campaigns or legion campaigns
got it okay so you're talking about
almost like listening in
for
signs that
things outside of capturing mql's
capturing emails capturing the kind of
lower levels of intent
leads
that your other strategies are working
and
to is i guess that's to to prove to kind
of upper management that are perhaps
putting on the pressure that needs to
drive more mqls that these other
strategies
in today's world are actually more
effective when it comes to driving
kind of qualified sales conveys
yeah and it's also worth just talking to
your manager about like hey last time
you bought software how did that journey
look and it sounds very obvious but if
you think about it it's very rare that i
convert directly from
say a paid ad for an ebook and then the
next day i'm in their email nurture
and i get kind of swooped into booking a
demo that i can't think of a time that
has happened for me personally um so i
just don't believe that people buy that
way from just going through an email
nurture being talked into booking a demo
it's really more just you talk to your
peers you're reading content you're
listening to podcasts all kinds of
things and then
finally something clicks and you realize
okay i should go check these guys out
and for their attribution that might
look like organic search or it might
look like direct traffic so that's where
looking at things like gong and other
listening tools can be really powerful
yeah interesting stuff so
what about on the other side though so
what about dealing with the sales team
and whether that is i don't know your
vps sales your chief revenue officer
your sales leader whoever looks after
sales for your organization and what if
you say well look we're going to cut off
the mqls we're going to cut off the
email nurture
and and they're like well we want we we
still want a big flow of leads that's
gonna kind of cut down our conversations
our sales reps might have to do more
cold outreach or whatever the
alternative is how do you kind of deal
with those difficult conversations
yeah i think i mean often those
conversations will happen around the
same time because you'll be saying are
these mqls converting and who's
following up if it's if you have an
inbound sdr or bdr team often they're
the one who owns that follow-up process
and what that looks like so again i
would look into
are those converting how much time does
it take in sdr to convert an inbound
lead if it's something like an ebook
lead
it's not that much different than
outbound to be totally honest i mean
that person isn't expecting a follow-up
and they're not expecting to be put i
mean now you're kind of expecting it but
not in a good way so
um you're not really hoping to be put
into that sdr's queue when you
download something
um
fake info right
i mean we i
i often put in real info because i love
to see other people's nurture programs
but you're one of the good people very
meta
yeah i'm a good one i guess but i just
like to spy on other people's marketing
so maybe that's just me
but um
[Music]
i i think it is a broader conversation
of do you need an inbound
mark sales team period so if you are in
that
process of okay we have 100 mqls we have
to bring in or else the inbound sales
team can't hit their targets
that's a much broader conversation of
is this the best use of a sales team's
time period do we need to have this
inbound team because if this team is
chasing people that
again filled out an ebook form they're
not expecting that they might not even
be a good fit for your product
and then they're just chasing these
leads versus
what the new strategy that a lot of
companies like chili piper is using is
we have that team purely focused on
outbound but they're focusing on
accounts that we know are qualified so
they're spending their time on social on
different platforms engaging with those
leads directly and kind of building up
that relationship versus
basically being admin
coordinators for the ae team and kind of
booking those meetings for them
um
yeah yeah i want to talk about that a
little bit more in a sec and how perhaps
the comparison between
sending less qualified leads to perhaps
inbound sales development reps versus
allowing visitors to self-qualify which
we can dive into in a bit
but we've talked about that getting
content isn't necessarily the way
then
what is the right way what what should
b2b companies consider
as opposed to investing in kind of paid
and heavily gated content whether that's
driving people to lead forms or whatever
it may be paid sponsored webinars etc
what's what's what are some of the ways
that you're seeing working right now
yes i definitely wouldn't say that paid
channels are off the table i think it's
just a different approach so things like
a lead form on linkedin for an ebook
probably aren't converting down the
funnel i mean maybe they are for you but
i'd be pretty surprised to hear that so
again i would look at what is converting
and spending money driving to that so
for example
right now we know that we get qualified
leads from
things like a podcast so we'll put paid
spend on linkedin behind just social
clips of our podcasts that are
usually we try to tie it back to our
brand story and kind of
topics like this where it's about hey do
you need an inbound sdr team if we have
a clip of that we can use that and get
the message
right on that linkedin channel instead
of driving them to a gated asset that
will have the same message kind of
buried in it under the gate so really
trying to lead with that messaging
yeah so are we saying are you saying
it's more of a demand generation play
where
we're not necessarily trying to force
prospects down a specific funnel that we
might want them to go down
but it's more
kind of educating the market so
targeting like you said there whether
that's paid content on linkedin or
another channel
where you're getting in front of the
target audience giving them something
they might find
entertaining whether that's a snippet of
a podcast or a written post or
infographic whatever
and then
kind of hoping that over time they're
seeing our brand enough
that when they do need
our product our service
we're top of mind or when they know
someone that needs it they're going to
refer our company to them because
they've seen us so much and kind of
built up that long-term trust
yeah it's funny you said brand because
in the past i would have thought of all
of this that i'm talking about as brand
marketing which to me i would say like
oh that's not my thing i'm more of a
numbers demand gen person but now i
think things have changed so much where
again we're not gating everything so
you're not always focusing on that lead
you're focusing on things like
are people engaging with this post are
they sharing it
what are the comments like and those are
metrics that i never would have looked
at a couple of years ago
so it's really changing a lot
yeah and this might be relevant for the
next point so
for for b2bs or companies that want to
scale fast
typically the the mindset is we need
maximized leads to fuel uh our sales
team so we can hit our revenue targets
well that's
for the next year for the next quarter
how do you get around that how do you
kind of put them in the mindset that
well we're gonna have less leads
but the leads that we're gonna get are
gonna be super qualified so they'll
close at a better rate i mean how how do
you kind of manage that conversation
yeah i think again it's a
tough conversation to have it's not easy
but one thing that we've been focusing
on is really making sure that those
pages that do drive directly it's like
say our demo page our product pages
pricing that we're spending a lot of
time optimizing those pages specifically
because when people do come and seek
those pages out we know that they're
ready and they're qualified so we're not
focusing on pushing book a demo to every
person in demand gen marketing but
people that have been to our website
before we'll retarget them with that and
we make sure that that page converts
super well
so that's really where we have our team
is kind of split on we have people
focusing on cro and then we have a lot
of people focusing on brand events
more broader content initiatives
yeah yeah and
that's interesting in terms of do you
still think that the demand gen approach
because i know chili piper do a fair bit
in seo as well and they're ranking well
for a lot of the search terms around
your offerings do you think
in today's b2b market let's say for the
tech for tech companies specifically is
it still is it a demand gen player you
want to you want to focus on or should
you look at other channels that are
perhaps a bit more old-school like
organic seo that i talk about a lot
and paid and driving people to the site
is there is it still very much a
multi-channel approach that you
recommend or is there any kind of things
that you think companies should wait
towards i guess
yeah i think i definitely wouldn't stop
doing seo it's just getting harder and
more competitive so it's not as easy to
be number one anymore as it used to be
in b2b um there's just much more
competition especially for us we're up
against a lot of kind of bigger free
tools that are in very similar spaces to
us that just
their traffic is just huge so that makes
it really tough for us to compete with
them but
um i would say
that that multi-channel approach one
thing that i've seen a lot of people
talking about now is kind of demand
capture versus demand gen and i think
channels like paid search is a perfect
example of you're capturing people that
are already looking for your tool so
that's where things like cro making sure
that your pages convert well
is super important
and then
making sure that you're driving people
to just know about your brand and the
solution is a much higher up the funnel
kind of thing that you have to be
thinking about as well
yeah i guess it's getting that balance
right because i know there's a stat
around it and i've probably got this
stack completely wrong but it's
something like four or five percent of
your entire market will only be in the
buying
position to buy right now so that's when
you can capture them on organic search
because they're perhaps searching for
your product like best ex company or
i don't know one company versus another
one sas company versus another company
that's when they head to one of your
pages because they're in the comparison
stage or in the stage where they need to
buy so they'll either hit your organic
result or hit your paid result or even
go to a comparison site like g2 or trust
radar and then kind of hit up a couple
companies to get some quotes or demos
whereas the rest of the market the 95 97
or whatever it is
isn't wanting to buy
but can be influenced over time so i
suppose that's where things like demand
gen and
kind of making sure you're putting out
that content that's educating the market
really comes into play
yeah i think in the past things like
email nurture could work to move people
to that place where they're maybe in the
market but now i think people just tune
a lot of that out so it's again i think
i saw that same stat around five percent
of your buying or your icp is in buying
mode today right now
and those are the people that you want
to optimize things like again organic
paid search
and making sure that your pages convert
really well and again that's where tool
like chili piper comes because make sure
one get those qualified leads vape they
can
just either be qualified book time with
a rep right away and you don't lose them
and lose them to a competitor you want
to capture that lead right away
yeah sure so let's let's get back to
inbound sales teams because i know some
companies still have them and inbound
sdr so essentially they'll
that's to to my understanding because
i've never worked with them so you might
have to correct me if i'm i'm wrong tara
so essentially the lead that someone
fills out a form fills out a demo
request wherever maybe on your website
that then gets rooted to what's called
an inbound sdr who then pre-qualifies
the sales lead or the sales prospect and
then if they're a good fit then they'll
send them to an account executive who
then set up the demo whatever the next
stage in the sales process is that is
that usually the
process usually that's the process so
there's a lot of points where you could
lose the person in that process so
usually at some companies they'll do
that pre-qualification over email so
they might again they might not answer
you might lose them
some companies they have to book a
meeting and do that qualification on the
phone
okay so you could lose them maybe they
don't show up to that first meeting
maybe they don't ever book a time and
then after the fact that same sdr has to
follow up and book a time with the ae
for kind of the real demo that the
person was looking for originally so
typically there's just like probably
about five drop-off points
in there that you could lose the person
so to me it's just a huge risk of having
all those different
it's just a lot of friction in the
process
yeah i mean saying it now it sounds
quite cumbersome right because it's it's
basically saying
to speak to someone to get a demo or
proposal whatever that part of your
process is you've got to speak to
someone before you can speak to someone
and then like you say that might be
quite frustrating especially if you're a
prospect that wants to move fast and if
you've got to wait like a couple days to
get a meeting and then get another
meeting it's just
yeah and often it's questions that you
could have asked me on the forum it's
do i have a big sales team do i have
marketing automation do i have budget
like just ask me all the on the form and
then you won't have to
have this because really that's the
function of those whole teams typically
so if you can streamline any of that up
front then you definitely should
so what what is what is a better way
should we do all that stuff on a website
should we let visits pre-qualify what
you recommend
yeah i definitely i mean i'm a little
biased being that i'm at chile piper but
we there's a bunch of tools you can use
to pre-qualify so you can use things
like
zoom info clear bit to help fill in
those gaps if so you don't have to ask
someone 20 questions on a form to
qualify them so those tools are
definitely available and then
once you've decided if that lead is
qualified you can use a tool like chili
piper to route them to the right rep
maybe you want to route them to for us
we route leads that are not qualified to
a thank you page right away so they know
why they were not qualified and they
know what the next steps are so that's
another piece i would say is if you are
switching from an inbound team to
automatic qualification just make sure
that you let people know what's
happening next so if they're qualified
and they're booking a meeting that's a
very obvious step but i've seen a lot of
companies that
either they just don't show you the
calendar if you're not qualified or it's
just a very confusing message so we are
very upfront about like hey sorry we
only work with these crms and that's why
we can't move forward right now but
we'll keep you posted if that changes
yeah yeah yeah and
do you think
also in terms of the site itself in
terms of because i think a lot of b2b
companies we spoke about this a little
bit on our last episode when we're
talking about kind of best practices to
convert with your website
but do you think you should use the
website almost as an all-in-one 24 7
sales rep that's gonna kind of
give a clear idea of what you do how you
help pre-qualified prospects so that
might be being very transparent on
processes
pricing
case studies exactly who you're able to
help who you're not able to help so
people can almost self-serve and flick
through understand kind of where your
strengths are what you're going to be
able to do where you sit at in terms of
race and then
proceed to raise their hand for a demo
or take that next step
yeah i think
it is a little bit of self-serve i know
that's often used in more of like a
freemium product type conversation but
when you put your pricing out when you
put your use cases and case studies just
right ungated on your site that does let
people self-qualify so if they're if
they come to us looking for say a free
solution they'll see that we don't have
one today and maybe they'll go to a
competitor maybe they'll fill out our
form anyway and see what the options are
but
i know we talked about this last time
but if you don't have pricing on your
site you're sort of forced to book a
demo to find that out
so you're probably wasting that rep's
time too if you were say looking for a
free solution
i'd be really interested because i still
see quite a few b2b sites that you have
to put in your email or some contact
information to request to request the
pricing i'll be interested to find what
the drop off what the bounce rate is on
their pricing pages that would be really
interesting to know
i mean for me i would leave immediately
i don't know about everyone else but i
certainly would if it was if it was a
sas tool i would
unless this company had built up so much
reputation with me let's say it was a
direct referral of like a close contact
or friend and they just like really sold
it to me i think that would probably or
i'd followed the company on social or
similar for years
i think those would be the only two use
cases that i'd take the time and put my
email in for otherwise like you say i
just flick off to a site that gives me
the info i want
yeah or you would ask around ask a
friend hey how much did you pay for this
and then yeah maybe they were getting a
discount and you didn't and now you have
that to kind of use against the sales
rep that you do speak with that probably
wouldn't have been on the table if it
had just been transparent pricing yeah
yeah no that's it so i'll play the
devil's advocate a minute and go against
almost everything i stand against but
it's isn't it direct isn't directing
everyone to your website a bit of a risk
aren't you missing aren't you
potentially missing drop-off points
aren't you shouldn't you be flooding
your website with pop-ups like don't
exit now fill in this form and give us
your email we'll give you 20 off
shouldn't we be like ramming our forms
down people's necks so we don't miss out
on those juicy conversions or or not
i think again it comes back to what is a
conversion worth to you so if you're
collecting 100 emails a day but none of
them ever become an opportunity
yeah something's wrong or you're just
spending time on the wrong thing so i
would
yeah that was that's what i would do is
i would look at
where what happens to these leads are we
just emailing them every single day
until they unsubscribe or are they
actually becoming an op and booking a
meeting yeah yeah yeah and when um
appreciate it was it was set up kind of
before you joined chili piper but do you
know the stats on do you know any rough
stats in terms of when they switch this
model in terms of kind of the percentage
of leads that went to closure and like
close one revenue as opposed to before
hmm
that's a good question i don't actually
think we ever had much gated content
period the founders have always been
pretty against it which is again i'm i'm
on the same page so i'm happy about that
um
yeah so i don't have a number to share
but but i'm curious from your
perspective as an seo
obviously you probably don't like gated
content too much but have you seen
anyone kind of do both say have
gated content and then also have like an
seo version of that page somewhere else
yeah i mean
not tons we have we i mean we've even
worked with companies that like i say
get their pricing page and i often have
conversations with them to learn kind of
why they're doing it and the results
they're getting out and give them a
different point of view and things like
that um i know a lot of seo focused
articles whether that's like
bottom of the funnel articles where
they're comparing comparing their sas
product to another sas product might
have things as you scroll down like sign
up for our email or download our
20 top tips to do x or those kind of
things because
i kind of get you don't want to lose the
traffic because
this can pers this person might be at a
certain stage of the funnel and you kind
of want to get some info from them
so they don't just get what they want
and bounce off your page so i think
sometimes it is a bit of a difficult one
and basically what i'm saying to you is
it depends um it depends what's always
the answering portion of it just the
number one marketing answer
i mean to your point you don't want
people to not know what the next step is
if they are interested so especially for
something like you brought up comparison
pages it should be super obvious like
okay i'm sold based on this comparison
page what do i do now
but that's not necessarily the same as
gating the whole page because you still
want people to read it
yeah i'd i mean personally i might be a
bit biased but i'd never say get a full
page in my own opinion because i just
think that's really harming the user
experience you can have a terrible
bounce rate and very few people are
going to actually give you their info
their name their email whatever just to
consume a bit of content so the likely
the bounce rate on that page is going to
be horrific
but yeah i think meeting somewhere
halfway like what i said before on when
i've been on other shows other podcasts
is that
my own use case i made a guide about a
year ago called the no bs guide to
website lead gen where i basically
shared all the secrets that i've learned
from 11 years or so of doing websites
and seo put them into a book originally
i sold it for like 15 pounds like 20 not
much
and then six months later i made it free
in return for an email and so basically
said if you sign up for the book you'll
get my weekly email and you'll get the
guide
which
i kind of felt was fair because people
were paying for it before it told me it
was worth the value
um whereas if it had just been like a
two-pager
and something like that i feel that it's
not really
worth someone's info in return if you so
i mean
i think yeah i think i've seen a lot of
good examples of things that like lead
magnets where it's the whole page is
ungated but it's kind of like if you
want the full deep dive this is the
gated part which i think that again it's
like is it worth the value of giving up
my email you have to really think about
that sometimes because you don't know
what's going to happen with your email
but there's some really good examples of
that
i think where it gets tough is when
let's say for example if you're a
product like growth company and maybe
you've got a free trial for your
software or your sas solution if you put
out an article
on a certain topic someone reads it and
thinks well this company is really
helpful and give me some useful tips
they might sign up for your free trial
because it's such a
easy ask
whereas if you're a company that's like
us you don't have a free trials you've
got to pay to get on the get invested
then it's higher friction
um so that's when i think marketers
struggle because they think that i'm
just going to lose this visitor because
they've got the information they need
they've answered their questions now
they're going to bounce off but then i
suppose that's when other aspects things
like if you're doing retargeting pixels
and then you're kind of showing them ads
over time because you you've know your
website audience and then you can get in
front of them with whether it's linkedin
ads facebook ads whatever then i suppose
you've still got the time over time to
kind of keep in front of them
yeah one thing we've been experimenting
with is instead of asking for something
like an email we've been adding buttons
on our site to follow us on linkedin so
again we'll be in your feed
you'll see us all the time without us
having to pay for those impressions um
yeah i don't have any results on that
just yet but we're testing that out
throughout our blog instead of just like
newsletter sign up or give us your email
in exchange for something else yeah and
i suppose there's other things like
trusting that some people on your site
might then hit your resources tab and if
you've got things like a podcast i know
obviously we both do and if you've got
video series or how-to guides then
trusting that they'll they'll go further
on the site explore things and then let
you say maybe connect to you on social
media or follow you on some other
channel
so all is not necessarily lost if they
don't book the demo there and then
yeah especially if again if you know
when you capture that email not too much
happens
sometimes it's worthwhile to be
elsewhere so for us we know our audience
spends a lot of time on linkedin so if
we can get them to follow us then
we'll constantly be on their feed and
that's a huge win for us versus
you're on our newsletter list and maybe
you'll open it maybe we'll go to your
promotions tab we can't really control
that too much so
that's why we're playing a little bit
with just more social channels
yeah yeah yeah and are there any other
points whether it's on the website or
outside of the website that you think
perhaps b2b companies are missing a
trick when it comes to actually turning
their hard-earned visitors into
qualified demo requests
hmm i think
not specifically on your website i think
one thing that i see a lot on
linkedin and social media specifically
is that people just
company pages i should say just go for
the hard sell way too often
i've unfollowed a lot of pages just
because it's
it's the opposite of what you're saying
they're just constantly asking for you
to take the next step book a demo it's
that's not really what
social media is for especially on the
organic side so if you want to do that
with your retargeting or with other
channels that's a different story but
people don't follow someone on linkedin
for that kind of hard sell all the time
so i would almost pull back
on that versus pushing for that
conversion every time
yeah yeah yeah i mean that you're
exactly right literally you've only got
a scroll through linkedin and myself
probably most days there's like five
companies that just saying straight away
book a demo
um and you'll see they have zero
comments
zero yeah zero likes or comments just
like
not sure about booking a damn because
first of all i don't know who the heck
your company is or what you can bring to
the table um
there's a chat called justin rowe that
runs a company called link and learn and
he he actually puts out some really
interesting content so i'd recommend
following on linkedin
around basically around demand jen and
linkedin ads because he runs a linkedin
ad co i don't often plug other companies
on the on the show but he actually puts
really interesting stuff on this because
basically
he shares about how you can take a
different approach rather than just ram
and get a dummy down people's necks
and testing out things like like you say
taking video clips from podcasts
bringing up common questions that you
get on sales calls and answering that
with your content so
taking more of a strategy that you're
just posting organically on linkedin
but instead of that you're turning into
an ad so it almost looks like it's part
of the normal feed
rather than just doing something that's
a blatant ad and trying to kind of get
someone through the funnel
yeah we're doing a test right now
actually where we're
because most of our linkedin spend on
the ad side is sponsored post which is
the typical format for linkedin ads um
but we're doing that versus boosting an
organic post exact same content same
link everything um so far they're neck
and neck so not neither is coming up
ahead but
i was thinking that the boosted post
would just do much better so i'm curious
to see how that goes but yeah that would
be interesting
that'd be interesting to find out for
sure um
right that's i think we covered some
good round in terms of kind of the the
opposition to using getting content any
any final words or for any any marketers
that need to have uh tough chats with
with their perhaps senior management
team after this after listening to this
podcast any final kind of tips on what
they should say like in terms of um
yes the leads might go down but what
we're going to get if we take this
approach is going to be a lot better
qualified
better conversations it's gonna help us
it's gonna help our sales team and it's
gonna kind of help revenue
i think again i would look at where your
actual customer
customers and opportunities are coming
from and you can um it often won't be
social ads or even paid search won't
come up too much they'll remember things
like a podcast appearance an event they
went to that your team was at so i would
try to really get
granular about that you can even have we
have our sales team on the demo they ask
kind of what prompted you to book this
call and we track that in salesforce
that's another way you could do it a lot
of companies are doing it just on their
demo form now too
but getting that anecdotal feedback and
kind of pairing that with the data is
really important um i did see a linkedin
post earlier this week that i thought
did such a good job of capturing this
kind of whole sentiment but it was um
liam moroney i don't know if you follow
him but he is a really good follower on
linkedin and he basically just said
that your b2b marketing should not be
kind of a mouse trap and you should mark
it with respect and if you trick someone
into giving you their email
that's
it's just not a good way to go about
things i can't
i can't explain the way that he did so
concisely but um you mean we're not
meant to offer people 150 voucher for
taking a demo
basically that was what he was getting
at is not going to name any names
there's plenty of companies doing it
yeah there's plenty of that and
you might get those people into your
funnel but it's not going to be a good
experience for them your sales rep
probably won't be happy either to be
dealing with those prospects so
really just thinking about it as
how you would prefer to purchase
something and kind of treating your
customers with that same amount of
respect
yeah yeah it's a great way to end it i
like that point on how do you hear about
us because
i've had a lot of pushback on the how
did you hear about ask form because for
example web choice we'd very much taken
multi-channel approach so we're doing a
fair bit of seo we're doing paid ads
doing linkedin organic doing the podcast
so we get inbound ops from a range of
different channels
so
quite often even on the how do you hear
about us section of our form where we
want to get the granular detail on kind
of the full funnel of how someone heard
about us from initial point to
converting people might still put google
and
google was just the point that captured
the demand so
i'll often like you say say on the sales
school if we jump on the sales score i
say look what was the full journey like
you say how did what prompted you to
reach out to us today or kind of how did
you discover us and then you'll get the
full granular journey that you can dive
deeper into because i think sometimes
even the form doesn't give give you the
full experience i don't know what your
experience is there
yeah i find as soon as you can ask
someone
in person or i guess over zoom you'll
just get again a full picture versus oh
i just googled this word and it's like
well i googled it because i heard about
you on this other podcast and then my
friend at this other company used you
it's just it's often much more
complicated than just
google search or direct yeah yeah yeah
yeah just getting the full picture good
stuff tara well yeah thanks once again
for coming on please do tell everyone
how they can learn more about yourself
chili piper and the best way to get in
touch
sure yeah so i'd love it if you could
check out our podcast it's called demand
gen chat and we put out a new episode
every two weeks now
and i'm also obviously on linkedin and
twitter and i can
share those links with sam later
thank you so much
no worries and we'll put all of those
links over in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks once again for
coming on tara enjoy the chat thanks so
much for having me sam
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast channel of choice really
helps us a lot or if you're on youtube
click subscribe and with that said we'll
catch you on the next episode for more
no bs actual marketing tips to grow your
business and revenue cheers for tuning
in